in this little clip we are going to
learn how to put binding on it's very
simple this is the binding a webbing
binding this is like a poly cotton or
some sort of blend I don't typically use
a hundred percent cotton because I
sometimes paint my bindings and I don't
want it to shrink once it's on so this
is what we're going to do we're going to
bind this piece of fabric and I'm gonna
show you just how to do that so over
place it right here on center
really when you're binding you also want
to put it make sure that you put it in
an obscure position you don't want
people to see where you joined your bank
you're buying it join where you join
your binding
I'm pulling this in
because I really don't want it to be
puckered I want it to be tight on
okay so I
folding this around and turning as I go
back down to the corner
if you're sewing over paint sometimes
you will find that the painter builds up
on the needle all you have to do is take
your fingernail and rub it off it's
because it's not always because the
paint is wet but it's because the heat
of the needle the friction causes it to
gum up from the inside
but you just wipe it off and you go
okay
so now I'm at almost at the end so what
I do is I cut it and now I have to
turn it over
and I'm cutting I have an excess amount
I'm aware of that but I am folding it to
see exactly where I needed to go and as
long as I have that crease and I know
where it has to go I'm just going to cut
that in half
I'm gonna hold that down continue
stitching
and I'm just gonna continue just for a
few more stitches and I can backtrack
and lock that in
and then that is secure I just clean up
my stitches
and there we have it
you